p. "Cinemaslides":http://github.com/wolfgangw/digital_cinema_tools/blob/master/cinemaslides is a commandline-tool to build slideshows and pack them up as "digital cinema packages (DCPs)":http://wiki.github.com/wolfgangw/digital_cinema_tools/digital-cinema. It has preview modes to check how transitions (fades, crossfades, cuts) and timings play out. If you must you can also tell Cinemaslides to go 24fps-carousel-berserk and pack up your motion picture[1].

p. Look at [[cinemaslides usage]] for examples and tips.

p. It -- or rather "ImageMagick":http://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php, source of endless awesomeness, as well as "Sound eXchange":http://sox.sourceforge.net/ -- conforms a wide range of image and audio files to cinema specs and tries to be smart and fast (Couple of todo's lurking right there).

p. Also, it is a work in progress (e.g. no 3D slideshows yet). Thanks go out to Ronan Delacroix for discussion and patches wrt cinemaslides' audio section.

p. Technically it's a ruby script acting as glue and organizer between a number of tools: CineCert's/John Hurst's reference implementation for AS-DCP file access "asdcplib":http://www.cinecert.com/asdcplib/, ImageMagick, SoX, MPlayer, OpenJPEG / Kakadu (which is available for demonstration purposes) and bash.

p. Apart from expressing my affection for slideshows Cinemaslides also serves as some sort of testbed for _Dietrich_, which will be awesome :)

p. Cinemaslides provides a basic set of transitions: Cuts, Fades and Crossfades. The latter step through a sigmoid function which creates a much nicer look than linear transitioning. (If you love fades make sure to watch Almodóvar's _Los abrazos rotos_. Also, every now and then, I have to remind myself to sit down and watch the two all-time greatest of all fades.)

p. By the way: As of now (v0.2010.09.05) there's no black _fill_ between fades. Which is a problem when you watch fades in a dark theater on a big screen because human vision adapts to darkness. There are a number of non-trivial effects going on when you watch dark images, surrounded by darkness. The darker the environment the stronger the effect, it seems. (Thinking about an option to automatically provide that fill, possibly in relation to fade-out duration.)

p. Cinemaslides checks for and tells you about missing tools. It stores assets (frames that were cpu-expensive to create) in a depot and picks them up when they're eventually needed again. Instead of copying files it links to files whenever it makes sense.

h2. 

p. One thing that bugs me about it: For now cinemaslides creates full-length trackfiles which is kind of nuts for slideshows. One way to reduce size is to use _sparse assets_ -- minimum-length trackfiles (1 second each) or one store-all trackfile with minimum-length runs for each slide -- and to reference those via reels for the full-length run of each slide.

p. Another idea is to merely build new composition playlists targeting _fat_ slideshow essence already ingested on a cinema server. Like daily remixes.

p. And yet another way would be what Terrence Meiczinger casually "mentions":http://reduser.net/forum/showthread.php?p=607408#post607408 on "Digital Cinema Package":http://reduser.net/forum/showthread.php?t=33118 (an extensive thread on "reduser":http://reduser.net/forum/index.php that's about to linger into its 2nd year):

bq. I wonder if slideshows could also be achieved using timed-text tracks.

p. That should be quite elegant, indeed. 8 bpc only, though.

p. Something to get you started:

@cinemaslides --help@ to learn about options and parameters.
@cinemaslides --examples@ to see a couple of example invocations.
@cinemaslides -m -t dcp -k 2k -a scope -b 10 -x crossfade,1,5 -j openjpeg image1 image2 image3 ...@ displays a montage summary to check resizes and goes on to create a 2K Scope DCP with 10 seconds black leader/tail and crossfades for 1 second between all 5 second slides.

h2. 

fn1. @cinemaslides --type dcp -x fade,0,0.0416666666666667,0 motion_sequence/ audio.wav@ (frame duration 1/24th of a second) 
