h2. What is it?

p. It's a platform (Like 35mm film is a platform): Fully spec'd and standardized. High quality motion pictures in the age of files.

p. One of the key points of a platform is: Everyone knows how to use it and it works the same everywhere. Anyone can target it, be it a major studio or so-called _Indies_. Results are reproducible, be it on a digital screen in Bombay or in Anchorage.

p. Another aspect of the platform is its quality level. A digital cinema projection will give you back every detail you've come to cherish (and paid good money for) in post: 4:4:4, 12bpc, 250Mbps, 5.1, 6.1 or 7.1 audio.

p. By the way, __Avatar__ ran on ~26.000 screens worldwide. 8000 of those were Digital Cinema screens (7.382 digital 3D, 553 digital 2D).

h2. What's the benefit?

* A digital cinema package (DCP, digital cinema's equivalent of a distribution print) can carry a number of sound/language versions, title versions, subtitles, even different edits of the film if it's called for. It's a very flexible format.

* A digital cinema projector can be color-corrected. Which means authors -- for the first time in film history -- can actually get their graded colors back from theatre's screens. With 35mm projectors you could correct color shifts introduced by the Xenon lamp, the mirror and the heat shield as well. But it's not practical, hence not done. Ever saw a black and white feature on a changeover setup? Every reel change means a jump in color temperature. With digital cinema projectors color calibration and correction is built-in.

* Pristine image quality from opening night until the end of time. No more mutilated prints. What some projectionists do to film prints goes well beyond a motion picture engineer's worst nightmares: Prints with perfect changeover cues get the _big X scratch_ treatment -- not once, but many times. Up to entire scenes go missing at reel boundaries. Show up again in random places -- if you're lucky. Headers and tails get mixed up. Tail 3 ends up as header 4. Emulsion gets licked to see whether it's, well, the emulsion side (sic). Prints are dragged through projectors that haven't been taken proper care of, ever. All in all: It's nothing short of a miracle we have _any_  film history artefacts left.[1] Digital cinema ends this.

* Digital cinema offers strong content protection which in turn allows for easy distribution. As opposed to film prints which are being accompanied by armed security personnel (to press screenings and opening nights).

* With digital cinema it's inherently easy and cheap to reach the big screen with no/low/modest budget productions. Current quotes from post facilities and labs offering digital cinema services might suggest the opposite. But this will change, you can bet on that.

h2. How does it work?

Basically an image sequence (the motion picture) is compressed and encoded to a well-defined, cinema-specific JPEG 2000 codestream. Packed up (alongside with sound and subtitles) in MXF containers and composed through the means of descriptive XML to what will be shown on the screen. These _compositions_ are what make DCP such a powerful and flexible format. Final package gets copied onto a harddrive (or flash disk, optical medium etc.) and ingested on a digital cinema server. Finally, someone hits _Play_.

h2. Can I do it?

"Yes":http://github.com/wolfgangw/digital_cinema_tools/wiki/Cinemaslides. "Absolutely":http://wiki.github.com/wolfgangw/digital_cinema_tools/open-source-tools-for-a-digital-cinema-pipeline. Keep in mind that Digital Cinema will not, through some magic spells, turn 8bpc material into smooth 12bpc delight. It will not make up for the shortcomings of acquisition gear and problematic decisions in post. It _might_ turn a dull story into epic drama, though, and it just _might_ deliver world peace in due time.

h2. 

fn1. _What's a release print got to do with anything?_ you might wonder. In film preservation and restoration very often the only surviving materials are release prints. Also, when you deal with color film, a release print often is the only surviving color/contrast etc. reference. Think of a _day for night_ shot on camera negative: Without a release reference you might end up with a re-release which has a peculiar daylight scene noone has ever seen before ... So, apart from the obvious relevance for contemporary audiences, that's why the state of release prints matters.
